Hi, guys, in this lesson, I'm going to show you how to use the VPC wizard, the wizard helps you
to really easily create a VPC without having to do much manual work at all.
Now, of course, I do want to show you how to create your own custom BPC and do all this manually.
It's really important knowledge for the exam, but the exam also sometimes asks you about scenarios
related to the VPC wizard.
So it's worth a quick walkthrough to see what the available options are through the wizard in my management
console.
Let's go down to networking and VPC on the VPC dashboard.
Here I can choose Launch VPC Wizard, and we then offered four different pre-configured options, and
what I want to do is just go through what you get with each of these options.
So the first one is a VPC with a single public subnet.
Very simple.
You get a slash 16 side, a block and a slash 24 subnet, and it's a public subnet.
So if you select this option, you can specify your side block and it's giving you this default.
You can specify a name.
It's already entered the subnet side a block as well.
You could choose an AC if you want to or otherwise.
After entering the name, you could literally just create the VPC, and it's going to do all the tasks
for you.
And that would include attaching an internet gateway so that you have internet connectivity for your
public subnet.
Now let's cancel out of that.
Or let's go back.
Go to VPC with public and private subnet.
So now you simply get public and private subnet and you've got a network address translation device,
so you get a NAT Gateway so your private instances can access the internet.
So again, with this option, there's not too much to configure.
Other than the different subnets, public and private, the key difference here is your NAT Gateway
does need an elastic IP, so you need an elastic IP allocation IP.
Now, let's go back again, and this time we're going to go to VPC with public and private subnet and
hardware VPN access.
Here you have public subnets, private subnet and also a VPN tunnel gets created.
Now you need to have a VPN device in your corporate data center.
If we select this option, and let's just give this a name my VPC and leave the defaults on this page.
Click on Next.
And then it's going to ask for the customer gateway IP, and that's the IP address of your VPN device
on your side of the network on your corporate data center.
So if you specify those details when you create this, CPC is going to make that connection.
Let's just go back back again.
And the last one at the bottom is VPC with a private subnet only and hardware VPN access the same as
the one before, except that you only have a private subnet.
So you've got a VPN connection from your corporate data center to a private subnet and IWC with no routing
going out via the internet from that subnet in IWC.
So those are the four options I just wanted to quickly show you through them, and in the next lesson,
we'll actually create our own custom BPC.